Good. main.py is the real entrypoint.

The key signal now is this:

the new log lines still do not appear after restart

That usually means one of only two things:

the process is crashing before it reaches your new logging lines, or
the process you restarted is not actually the one serving the app

So stop making broad changes and do this as a controlled isolation test.

1) Move the first log to line 1 of main.py

Put this at the absolute top of main.py, before any app imports:

import logging
logging.warning("STARTUP FILE HIT: main.py TOP OF FILE")
print("STARTUP FILE HIT: main.py TOP OF FILE")

This must be the first executable lines.

Why

If even this does not appear, then either:

this file is not actually being executed by the runner, or
Python is failing before output is shown because another module is being invoked instead.
2) Add a second marker after each startup phase

In main.py, add markers like this:

import logging
logging.warning("PHASE 1: top of main.py")
print("PHASE 1: top of main.py")

from app import app, db

logging.warning("PHASE 2: imported app, db")
print("PHASE 2: imported app, db")

from update_forecast_ordering_schema import update_forecast_ordering_schema

logging.warning("PHASE 3: imported schema updater")
print("PHASE 3: imported schema updater")

update_forecast_ordering_schema()

logging.warning("PHASE 4: schema updater finished")
print("PHASE 4: schema updater finished")

Then only after that continue with blueprint imports/registration.

Goal

We need to know the exact phase where startup dies.

3) Temporarily disable all forecast-related imports from app.py

This is important.

Even if main.py is correct, the crash may be happening during:

from app import app, db

because app.py itself may import blueprints or forecast modules too early.

Tell Replit to inspect app.py and temporarily comment out any of these if present:

forecast blueprint imports
forecast workbench imports
ordering refresh imports
any code importing services.forecast.*
any code importing SkuOrderingSnapshot
any register_blueprint(...) for forecast modules inside app.py

We need from app import app, db to become as lightweight as possible.

Important

No forecast-related module should be imported inside app.py until after the schema updater has run in main.py.

4) Confirm whether the crash happens during from app import app, db

Tell Replit to wrap just that import:

import logging
logging.warning("PHASE 1: top of main.py")
print("PHASE 1: top of main.py")

try:
    from app import app, db
    logging.warning("PHASE 2: imported app, db")
    print("PHASE 2: imported app, db")
except Exception:
    logging.exception("FAILED DURING: from app import app, db")
    raise

If it fails there, the schema updater in main.py is still too late, and the fix is to remove forecast imports from app.py.

5) If app.py imports forecast code, move those imports into main.py

Refactor like this:

In app.py

Keep only:

Flask app creation
config
db init
login manager init
generic extensions

Do not import/register forecast blueprints there.

In main.py

After schema updater succeeds, do:

from blueprints.forecast_workbench import forecast_bp
app.register_blueprint(forecast_bp)

and the same for any other forecast/order blueprints.

This guarantees schema first, then forecast imports.

6) Print the exact run command / process target

Have Replit inspect:

.replit
replit.nix if relevant
run command
any gunicorn command
any workflow config

They must confirm exactly what command starts the app.

Example things to check:

python main.py
gunicorn main:app
gunicorn app:app
flask run
workflow runner target
Why

If the runner starts app:app directly, then main.py will never execute, even if it is the nominal startup file.

That would explain why your new main.py logs do not appear.

This is now one of the most likely explanations.

7) If runner uses app:app, move schema updater into app.py before blueprint imports

If Replit discovers the process starts with something like:

gunicorn app:app

then your main.py fix will never help.

In that case the correct sequence is:

keep app.py minimal
run schema updater in app.py immediately after app/db init
only then import/register forecast blueprints

But only do this if the run command proves app.py is the actual executed module.

8) Search for import-time DB queries

Tell Replit to search for any top-level ORM calls:

rg -n "\.query\.|\.all\(\)|\.first\(\)|\.count\(\)|db\.session|session\.query" .

Then inspect forecast-related files for queries outside functions/classes.

Anything like this at module scope must be moved inside functions:

rows = SkuForecastProfile.query.all()
latest = db.session.query(...).first()
Why

Import-time queries can crash before startup logging or schema patching finishes.

9) Temporarily hard-disable forecast blueprint registration to prove startup

In the actual executed module, comment out all forecast-related blueprint registrations and restart.

Expected result:

app should start
top-of-file logs should appear
schema updater logs should appear

If app starts with forecast disabled, then the crash is definitely inside forecast imports or forecast blueprint registration.

That narrows the fault sharply.

10) Add a minimal standalone schema test in main.py

Before any forecast import, add:

from sqlalchemy import text

with app.app_context():
    with db.engine.begin() as conn:
        result = conn.execute(text("SELECT 1")).scalar()
        logging.warning(f"DB smoke test result: {result}")
        print(f"DB smoke test result: {result}")

If this fails, the problem is basic DB connection/init, not the forecast schema itself.

If this passes, then the crash is later in forecast imports.

11) Most likely next diagnosis

Based on what you reported, the most likely remaining issue is:

the runtime command is not actually executing main.py, or
from app import app, db is importing forecast modules too early and crashing before your new schema code runs.

Those are now the first two things Replit should prove or rule out.

12) What I need back from Replit

Tell them to return only these exact outputs:

the actual run command / process target
whether STARTUP FILE HIT: main.py TOP OF FILE appears
whether PHASE 2: imported app, db appears
the full stack trace if phase 2 fails
whether app starts when forecast blueprints are commented out

Once you have those five answers, I can tell you the exact next fix.